The problem I am aiming to solve with this program is that composition of music is often lengthy and tedious, which can make it unenjoyable. Composing music isn't about physically writing the music--its about experimenting with different sounds. Often times, it is easier to play music by ear than to write it which is why my program is useful for many people. My program can be used by those who know and don't know how to read music-no prior knowledge is required to create sheet music with my app. Because I wanted my app to reach a wide range of people, I made the user interface reflect this.

The user interface in this program is very simple--it was meant to match the simplicity of the user experience of the app. There is a toolbar on the left side that contains all the actions of the program. There are short descriptions above all the buttons on the main screen, and more detailed descriptions in the help screen. The help screen was specifically designed so that users could read information and see it overlaid on top of the main screen instead of being taken to another page with just words.

The 2 modules I used in the creation of this app were pyAudio and aubio. pyAudio was used to record and playback music, while aubio was used to analyze a wav file and extract pitches. When a user clicks record, pyAudio starts and stops the recording. Then when the user clicks the sheet music button, aubio extracts the pitches, which get passed into a series of filtering functions. In the end, these filtering functions create a list of tuples. Each tuple represents a note, with a note length and a note name. This list gets passed into the draw function which draws each note 1 at a time. For each note drawn, there is a series of functions it must go through to determine what side the stem is on, if extra lines are needed, and where it should be placed on the staff. When the user hits the playback button, my function loops through all the notes and sends them one at a time to pyAudio, which is used to playback constant frequency notes.